# thales-markets/contracts/scripts/

Deployment scripts instructions for Thales contracts.

## Process Overview

### 0. Deploying Thales token contract

```bash
npx hardhat run --network ropsten scripts/thales/deploy_thales.js
```

This will create the THALES token and mint 100m into owner's wallet.

### 1. Deploying VestingEscrow contract

The first step is to run historical SNX stakers script with following command:

```bash
node scripts/snx-data/historical_snx_stakers.js
```

This script will generate JSON file - [`historical_snx.json`](./snx-data/historical_snx.json), which will be the input for `VestingEscrow` deployment script - [`historical_token_distribution.js`](./deployRetroLinearUnlock/historical_token_distribution.js):

```bash
npx hardhat run --network ropsten scripts/deployRetroLinearUnlock/historical_token_distribution.js
```

Deployment scripts will also update [`deployments.json`](./deployments.json) file with addresses of deployed contracts.

Sanity check files:

- Distribution before floor and investors scripts/snx-data/sorted_historical_stakers.json
- Final distribution with floor and investors scripts/snx-data/sorted_historical_stakers_after_floor.json

About 24m tokens should be in this contract.

### 2. Deploying Airdrop contract

The file [`historical_snx.json`](./snx-data/historical_snx.json) is also input for `Airdrop` contract deployment script, run with following command:

```bash
npx hardhat run --network ropsten scripts/airdrop/deploy_airdrop.js
```

Deployment script will generate [`airdrop-hashes.json`](./airdrop/airdrop-hashes.json).  
This file needs to be added in the dapp manually.

### 3. Deploying OngoingAirdrop and EscrowThales contract

Input for the deployment script is [`ongoing_distribution.json`](./snx-data/ongoing_distribution.json) which is generated by [`ongoing_distribution.js`](./snx-data/ongoing_distribution.js):

```bash
node scripts/snx-data/ongoing_distribution.js start_date end_date
```

Arguments (`start_date`, `end_date`) are in format `yyyy-mm-dd` and also represent one week period (ideally Wednesday 00:00:00 to Wednesday 23:59:59 - to include the last two Synthetix `FeePeriodClosed` events).

Run initial deployment script with following command:

```bash
npx hardhat run --network ropsten scripts/deployOngoingRewards/deployOngoingAirdrop.js
```

The script will also deploy the `EscrowThales` contract and generate file [`ongoing-airdrop-hashes-period-1.json`](./deployOngoingRewards/ongoing-airdrop-hashes-period-1.json) - which will also be the input for OngoingAirdrop maintenance script.

### 4. OngoingAirdrop maintenance

First, run [`ongoing_distribution.js`](./snx-data/ongoing_distribution.js) for the appropriate period:

```bash
node scripts/snx-data/ongoing_distribution.js start_date end_date
```

Inputs for OngoingAirdrop maintenance script are [`ongoing_distribution.json`](./snx-data/ongoing_distribution.json) - generated by the previous command and `ongoing-airdrop-hashes-period-PERIOD.json` - generated in the last maintenance cycle.

Run the maintenance script with following command:

```bash
npx hardhat run --network ropsten scripts/deployOngoingRewards/ongoingAirdrop.js
```

Update: Due to security reasons the owner is now a multisig so running a script is not possible as before, rather the steps are:  
* Gnosis Pause ongoing airdrop https://etherscan.io/address/0xDAaB884D083FE5c38b4679ae194c52f176Bd8783
* Gnosis close staking period https://etherscan.io/address/0x883D651429B0829BC045A94F288f3b514021B8C1
* Run the script ```bash
                 npx hardhat run --network mainnet scripts/deployOngoingRewards/ongoingAirdrop.js
                 ```
* Push the new hashes file
* Gnosis set the new root 
* Gnosis unpause

Sanity check:
* Make sure unclaimed rewards are carried over
* Make sure all addresses are lower case

The script will generate `ongoing-airdrop-hashes-period-(PERIOD+1).json`, input for the next maintenance cycle.

### 5. Deploying StakingThales contract

Run StakingThales deployment script with the following command:

```bash
npx hardhat run --network ropsten scripts/deployStaking/deploy.js
```

The script enables the staking process from the beginning (runs `startStaking()` on deployment).
